#labels Deprecated,Phase-Support
# Ideas page for the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2011

= Introduction =

The Tonatiuh project is applying this year, for the first time, to the Google Summer of Code program. As it is stated in the [http://www.google-melange.com/ Google Summer of Code 2011 site], _Google Summer of Code (GSoC) is a global program that offers student developers stipends to write code for various open source software projects._

If you are a student developer and you are interested in participating in the GSoC program with the Tonatiuh project, please, get in contact with us after reading the information contained in this page and in the links it refers to.

To get acquainted with the GSoC program, please, read:

  * [http://code.google.com/soc/ General information about the GSoC program]
  * [http://www.google-melange.com/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2011/timeline GSoC programm timeline]
  * [http://www.booki.cc/gsocstudentguide/ The student guide to GSoC]

= Requirements to participate in GSoC with Tonatiuh =

If you plan to participate in the GSoC with Tonatiuh, please, note that during the 12 weeks of the duration of your student project you have to comply with the following requirements:

  * Be able to work full-time in your student project for the full duration of 12 weeks.
  * Held weekly project status review sessions with your assigned mentor via the Tonatiuh project IRC channel on Freenode (#tonatiuhrt) or Skype internet videoconferencing.
  * Submit to [http://tonatiuhchronicles.blogspot.com/ Tonatiuh's blog] weekly posts summarizing the progress of your project.
  * Communicate with your assigned mentor as often as you need to keep your project moving forward and on schedule, using the Tonatiuh project IRC channel and the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tonatiuh-raytracer Tonatiuh's users and developers group] at Google groups.

It is known that the best student candidates are those that get involved in the project early, well before the selection deadline. Thus, if you are serious about participating with us in the GSoC, please, do the following:

  * Read the instruction on this wiki to set up your Tonatiuh development environment in the operating system of your choice (Windows, Linux or Mac), 
  * Get the Tonatiuh code and build it, 
  * Review our list of propose student projects (see below), and 
  * Get in contact with us via the Tonatiuh project IRC channel on Freenode (#tonatiuhrt) or the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tonatiuh-raytracer Tonatiuh's users and developers group].

In general, the more you show initiative in getting started with the above and in preparing your application, the more we will be willing to spend time interacting you and to help you in preparing your application to the GSoC program. We look forward to hearing from you!

= Application template =

== Basic contact information ==
  * Name: full name (preferred name in brackets)
  * Email:
  * Location: country, city during coding period
  * University: current university and course, year started, length, expected completion date.
  * Google talk ID:
  * Skype nick:
  * Phone number: (optional)
  * URL link to your CV: (optional)
  * URL link to your personal blog/homepage: (optional)

== Project proposal ==
  * Project title
  * Project description
  * Milestones & Schedule
  * What are the goals of your project?
  * What is the measure of success for each goal?
  * What is your planning schedule for completing these goals (preliminary, for further discussion)

== Other commitments ==
  * Exams or other events you expect to have to deal with during the GSOC period.
  * How you plan to balance the competing demands on your time?
  * Note that we require a minimum of weekly contact from all our students, unless forewarned.

== Coding experience ==
  * Do you have experience in object oriented programming?
  * Do you consider yourself a beginner, and intermediate or an experienced C++ programmer?
  * Are you familiar with the [http://qt.nokia.com/ Qt libraries]?
  * Are you familiar with [http://www.coin3d.org/ Coin 3D]?
  * Are you familiar with the [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/berkeleydb/overview/index.html Berkeley DB library]?

== Up and running? ==
  * Were you able to set up the Tonatiuh development environment following the indications provided in the Wiki pages of the Tonatiuh website?
  * Did you manage to compile it? Is it up and running on your computer?
  * If not, did you report a bug in the “Issues” section of the Tonatiuh website or request support on Tonatiuh's users and developers group?
  * Link to a screenshot of Tonatiuh running on your system.
  * Have you written any Tonatiuh solar concentrating model? Please, attach it to your GSoC application.

== Open source experience ==
  * Is this your first contact with the Tonatiuh project?
  * List or link to any code, patches, or bug reports contributed to other open source projects
  * List or link to any code, patches, bug reports contributed to the Tonatiuh project.

== Relevant professional experience ==
  * Only if it's relevant, e.g. engineering or computer science paid work.
  * Give the project details.

== Relevant studies ==
  * Courses that you have completed that are relevant to Tonatiuh: engineering, maths, computer science. Why are they relevant?

== Why Tonatiuh? ==
  * What is it that makes you want to work with our project?

= Proposed Student Projects =

== Import and export of 3D geometry from standard formats ==

We would like Tonatiuh to import and export 3D geometry from standard file formats such as AutoCAD (.dxf), Stereolithography (.stl), 3D Studio (.3ds), Virtual Reality Modeling Lenguage (.vrml), X3D XML (.x3d), !LuxRender (.LXS), or Google's Sketchup (.skp).

Not all of the mentioned formats are expected to be addressed in one student project. Several student projects could be defined with each project addressing one or two of the formats.
  * Contact person: [https://profiles.google.com/manuel.jesus.blanco/about/edit/d?hl=en_US Manuel J. Blanco]
  * Level of difficulty: Hard / Medium
  * Must know: The student should be familiar with the 3D format or formats he or she decides to focus on.
  * Language: C++
  * Priority: High

== Enhancement of Tonatiuh scripting capabilities ==
Although Tonatiuh already implements some scripting capabilities based on the Qt scripting technologies. It is desirable to review and greatly expand these capabilities, in order to enable:
  * Batch processing, and
  * Automatic testing.

Batch processing will allow Tonatiuh's users to either automate long-running tasks, or run Tonatiuh's processes separated from the Graphics User Interface (GUI); while automatic testing will make it possible for Tonatiuh's developers to use a scripting interface to the application and automatically exercise the application to verify that its GUI behaves as expected.
  * Contact person: [https://profiles.google.com/manuel.jesus.blanco/about/edit/d?hl=en_US Manuel J. Blanco]
  * Level of difficulty: Hard / Medium
  * Must know: To carry out this project it is desirable to have some previous knowledge of Qt scripting technology.
  * Language: C++
  * Priority: High

== Modeling of spectral interactions ==
Currently in Tonatiuh the Sun as a light source is defined by the direct irradiance (the amount of solar power per unit area that reaches a surface perpendicular to the main direction of the sun rays), and the sunshape, which is the angular distribution of radiance (power per unit solid angle and unit area perpendicular the direction of propagation) from the center of the solar disk.

In this definition, the spectral nature of sunlight is not considered. This is fine for modeling reflective solar concentrating systems as the ones used in most Concentrating Solar Thermal Power plants being proposed nowadays, since in those systems the spectral nature of sunlight plays a minor role, if it plays a role at all. However, it is not fine if one wants to model concentrating systems that use refractive elements, such as lenses.

We would like expand Tonatiuh to properly handle refraction. This implies the extension of the definition of the Sun as a light source to incorporate its spectral properties, the definition of material models that incorporate spectral properties of materials, and the modeling of the interactions between the sunlight and those spectrally-aware materials.
  * Contact person: [https://profiles.google.com/manuel.jesus.blanco/about/edit/d?hl=en_US Manuel J. Blanco]
  * Level of difficulty: Hard
  * Must know: To carry out this project it is desirable to have some previous knowledge of optics.
  * Language: C++
  * Priority: High

== Localization of Tonatiuh ==
We would like to provide Tonatiuh's users with the capability of being able to switch dynamically from English, which is the default language of the program's GUI, to another language such as Spanish, French, German or Chinese. 

By using Qt Linguist localization tools this should not be difficult to achieve. Although, it will require an extensive revision of the Tonatiuh code in order to identify all visible text strings in the program and properly wrap them up in specialized Qt Linguist objects. Furthermore, it will require the translation of all the English text in the program to the selected target languages.

Not all of the mentioned languages are expected to be addressed in one student project. Several student projects could be defined with each project addressing one or two of the languages.
  * Contact person: Amaia Mutuberria
  * Level of difficulty: Medium / Low
  * Must know: In addition to English, the student should have a medium knowledge of the language or languages she or he is targeting.
  * Language: C++
  * Priority: Medium

== Your Own Ideas ==
In addition to the proposed projects there are many other possibilities of improving and extending Tonatiuh. Please, feel free to discuss with us any ideas you may be interested in exploring.
  * Contact person: Get in contact with us in the IRC channel #tonatiuhrt on [http://freenode.net/ Freenode], or submit a post to [https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/tonatiuh-raytracer Tonatiuh's users and developers group].