#summary Instructions to tnstall the MinGW compiler and the MSYS environment for Windows

= Introduction =

To be able to develop Tonatiuh under Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7, you need to install he MSYS shell environment, the MinGW C++ compiler, and a series of libraries. The installation of the MSYS shell environment and the MinGW C++ compiler is the first step in this process.

Here you will find instructions to carry out this first and important step towards the setting up of a programming environment that will allow you to contribute to the development of the Tonatiuh code and to create your own plug-ins for Tonatiuh.

= Details =

Download the latest stable version of the MinGW installer. To do it, click on the following [http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files link] to go to the "Files" section of the MinGW project website at !SourceForge (see Figure 1).

*Warning: If you are using Microsoft Internet Explorer 6 or lower, the sourceforge.net webpage may not display properly. It may not show you the part of the webpage you have to access. To solve the problem you will either have to upgrade to Microsoft Internet Explorer 8, or use a different internet browser, such as Firefox.*

||http://lh6.ggpht.com/_tmEVMS15i5Y/TK9deqowXHI/AAAAAAAAAl8/73yAlG78Kn4/s288/MinGW_installer.png||
|| *Figure 1. View of the "Files" section of the MinGW website in !SourceForge.* ||

Once you are there, do a vertical scroll until you find the link to the executable file: 'MinGW-5.1.4.exe' as shown in Figure 2, and click on it.

|| http://lh3.ggpht.com/_tmEVMS15i5Y/SmsnrD7ncbI/AAAAAAAAAQU/grPuoNCyqhc/s800/MinGW_SourceForge_02.jpg ||
|| *Figure 2. Link to download the MinGW installer as located in the MinGW website in !SourceForge.* ||

A window will popup asking you if you want to excute the file or store it in your computer. Store it in your PC and, after that, execute it.

During the execution of the installer:
  * Select "Download and install", 
  * Click the "I gree" button to accept the terms of the license agreement,
  * Select "Previous" to install MinGW base tools,
  * Select "Minimal" as type of intall.

Then, finish the installation by entering the path of the destination folder where you want to install the program. Our suggestion is to build the complete Tonatiuh development environment under the same root folder. This way you can create your environment in one computer, and then replicate it to other computers, by just copying the root folder of the Tonatiuh development environment with all its subfolders and content.

We have decided to use the folder C:\sde as the Tonatiuh's development environment root folder. Thus, the destination folder for MinGW should be:

{{{
C:\sde\MinGW
}}}

This is the folder path and name you should enter into the Choose Install Location dialog of the MinGW installer. After that click on the "Next" button, and then on the "Install" button.

Once MinGW base system is intalled, install the current official release version of the gcc to MinGW.

Execute the installer again:
  * Select "Current" packages of MinGW,
  * Select "Custom" as the type of install, and 
  * Select "g++ compiler", "Java compiler", and "MinGW make" as the components to install and deselect "MinGW base tools" (see Figure 3).

|| http://lh5.ggpht.com/_tmEVMS15i5Y/SplH1K-3qhI/AAAAAAAAAVQ/qdTIMhxHHGI/s800/MinGW_Installer_components_dialog.jpg ||
|| *Figure 3. Dialog of the MinGW installer to choose the components to install.* ||

Enter the same destination folder path to the program in the Install Location dialog. After that click on the "Next" button, and then on the "Install" button.

Now, to install debugger for Mingw:
  * Click on the following [http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files link], and go to the "All Files". 
  * Download the current release of the "GNU Source-Level Debugger".
  * Execute downloaded setup,
  * Accept the terms of the license agreement, and
  * Set MinGW instalation path as installation folder path.

Once MinGW is installed, the next step is to install the MSYS environment. To do it, follow the instruction in the following wike page: [Installing_MSYS_for_Windows]. 

[InstallingForWindows Windows Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]