=How to install SoQt from source code?=

[http://doc.coin3d.org/SoQt/ SoQt] is a library that provides the glue between Systems in Motion's Coin high-level 3D visualization library and Trolltech's Qt 2D user interface library. Before SoQt installation check [Installing_QT_for_Windows Qt] and [Installing_Coin3d_for_Windows Coin3D] installations.

  # Download _SoQT-1.4.1.tar.gz_ from the Coin3D website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be _c:\msys\usr\home\username_.
Be careful! In some versions of Windows XP and Windows Vista, the Operating System changes the file extension from "tar.gz" to tar.tar. If this is the case, just undo the change.
  # Navigate to your user directory and extract the archive from the file you just downloaded using [http://www.winzip.com WinZip] or another extraction tool.  This should create a directory called _SoQT-##_ in your user directory.
  # Using MSYS shell navigate to your home directory and create a new folder called _soqt_build_ by typing the following in the command prompt:
  * _cd /home/username_
  * _mkdir soqt_build_
  # Next you need to set 3 environment variables. Type the following commands:
  * _export QTDIR="/usr/qt"_
  * _export COINDIR="/usr/local"_
  * _export INCLUDE="/usr/local/include:/usr/qt/include"_
  # Enter the soqt_build folder and run configure command:
  * _cd soqt-build_
  * _../SoQT-##/configure LDFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CXXFLAGS="-mno-cygwin"  --disable-msvc --without-mesa --without-x --with-coin=/usr/local --prefix=/usr/local_
  # After the configuration has finished running, you can install SoQT by typing _make install_

[http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki]