#summary Procedure to install simage for Mac

= Simage =

Simage is a multiplatform library capable of loading, manipulating and saving images, creating and saving movies (AVI and mpeg), and loading audio. 

= Details =

Download the latest realese of simage, currently [http://www.coin3d.org/lib/simage/releases/1.6.1 simage-1.6.1], from the [http://www.coin3d.org/ Coin3D] website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view. Place it into the desktop. 

Open a shell console and navigate to desktop and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -xvf simage-1.6.1.tar.gz
}}}

This will create a directory called _simage-1.6.1_ in your user directory. Using the shell navigate to just created simage-1.6.1 directory. Create release libraries by typing:
{{{
./configure --enable-debug=no --with-qt=/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-4.5.1
}}}

To create debug libraries type:
{{{
./configure --enable-debug --enable-symbols --with-suffix=_debug --enable-qt-debug --with-qt=/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-4.5.1
}}}
This will start the configuration process. Depending on your computer, this process may take some time to finish. When it does, install the simage libraries by typing:
{{{
make 
make install
}}}

Now, before start creating debug library clean all. Type:
{{{
make clean
}}}

And then generate library:
{{{
./configure --with-suffix=_debug
make
make install
}}}

At the end of the installation process, the libraries hab been installed at /usr/local directory. Now, [InstallingCoin3DForMac Coin3D] installation can be started.


[InstallingForMac Mac Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]