#summary A guide to install and configurate GoogleTest to develop Tonatiuh under Linux.

= Introduction = 

[http://code.google.com/p/googletest/ GoogleTest] is a framework based on the xUnit architecture. This framework is to write test for C++ code and valid for the most common platforms.
Installation

= Details =
To build and install goolge test library, first, we must install python and cmake in our development environment.

== CMake ==
To obtain CMake follow this [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html link] to go to the CMake webpage. Once you reach de webpage, download the latest binary version for Linux.

== Python ==
If you nedd to download python, ho to python [http://www.python.org/download/ downloads] web site. We need python 2.7 version.

== !GoogleTest ==
Finally we have to download google test library sources. Downlaod them from the [ http://code.google.com/p/googletest/ GoogleTest web site], clicking on _"gtest-1.5.0.tar.gz"_. Store the download file in your computer.

Once the sources file is on your PC, place it into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be _"C:\sde\MinGW\msys\1.0\home\username"_. Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -xzvf gtest-version.tar.gz
}}}

For build the library type:
{{{
export PATH=$PATH:/c/sde/CMake/bin:/c/sde/Python-2.7
cd gtest-version
mkdir mybuild
cd mybuild
cmake -G"MSYS Makefiles" ..
make
}}}

Now, to install builded libray type:
{{{
cp -r ../include/gtest /usr/local/include
cp lib*.a /usr/local/lib
}}}


[InstallingForLinux Linux Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]