#summary Procedure to install SoQt under Windows Vista or XP.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
[http://doc.coin3d.org/SoQt/ SoQt] is a library that provides the glue between Systems in Motion's Coin high-level 3D visualization library and Trolltech's Qt 2D user interface library. This pages provides instruction regarding how to install SoQt in your computer under a Windows XP or Windows Vista OS.

Before installing !SoQt, please, verify that Qt and Coin 3D are already installed and functioning on your PC. If they are not, install them firs by following the corresponding installation procedures InstallingQtForWindows and [InstallingCoin3DForWindows].

= Details =
Download the latest release of !SoQt, currently !SoQt 1.4.1, from the Coin3D website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view. The file you have to download is !SoQt-1.4.1.tar.gz. 

*(Note: If you are using Windows XP, be sure the operating system does not change the extension of the file from ".tar.gz" to ".tar.tar" while it is dowloading it. If it does, after downloading the file change its extension back to ".tar.gz")*

Place the downloaded file into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be c:\msys\usr\home\username. Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -zxvf SoQt-1.4.1.tar.gz
}}}
This will create a directory called _!SoQt-1.4.1_ in your user directory. Using the MSYS shell navigate to the just created SoQt-1.4.1. directory and type:
{{{
export QTDIR="/usr/qt"
export COINDIR="/usr/local"
export INCLUDE="/usr/local/include:/usr/qt/include"
}}}

The configure command is different if you want to build libraries in debug or release mode. For the debug mode type:
{{{
./configure --disable-msvc --enable-qt-debug --with-suffix=d
}}}

And for release type:
{{{
./configure --disable-msvc --enable-debug=no --with-coin=/usr/local --with-qt=/usr/qt
}}}
This will start the configuration process. This process should finish succesfully with the following message:
{{{
"SoQt configuration settings:
  Open Inventor brand: Coin
  Static Materials:    Yes
  Installation Prefix: /usr/local

Now, run 'make install'to build and install SoQt"
}}} 

Before start building !SoQt edit the file src/Inventor/Qt/!SoComponent.cpp to replace in line 103 'unsigned long key' with '!SbDict::Key key', so that the function delete_dict_value is written as:

{{{
static void delete_dict_value(SbDict::Key key, void * value)
{
  delete (QCursor *)value;
}
}}} 

Now, run 'make install'. The !SoQt library will be intalled to /usr/local directory.

Once the !SoQt library is installed the next step is to install the !QwtPlot3D library. To do it, follow the instructions in the following wiki page: [InsttallingQwtPlot3DForWindows InstallingQwtPlot3DForWindows]

[InstallingForWindows Windows Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]