mary Procedure to install Coin3D for Mac

= Coin3D =

Coin 3D is a high-level 3D graphics toolkit for developing cross-platform real-time 3D visualization and visual simulation software. Install Qt before start with the installation. 

= Details =

Download the latest realese of Coin3D, currently [http://www.coin3d.org/lib/coin/releases/3.0.0 Coin3D-3.0.0], from the [http://www.coin3d.org/ Coin3D] website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view. Place it into the desktop. 

Open a shell console and navigate to desktop and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -xvf simage-1.6.1.tar.gz
}}}

This will create a directory called _simage-1.6.1_ in your user directory. Using the shell navigate to just created simage-1.6.1 directory. First create release libraries by typing:
{{{
./configure --enable-debug=no --without-framework
}}}

This will start the configuration process. Depending on your computer, this process may take some time to finish. When it does, install the simage libraries by typing:
{{{
make 
make install
}}}

Now, before start creating debug library clean all. Type:
{{{
make clean
}}}

And then generate library:
{{{
./configure --enable-debug --enable-symbols --with-suffix=_debug --without-framework
make
make install
}}}

At the end of the installation process, the libraries hab been installed at /usr/local directory. Now, [InstallingSoQtForMac SoQt] installation can be started.


[InstallingForMac Mac Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]