#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

[http://qwtplot3d.sourceforge.net/ QwtPlot3D] is a feature-rich Qt/OpenGL-based C++ programming library for plotting three-dimensional graphs. This pages provides instruction regarding how to install [http://qwtplot3d.sourceforge.net/ QwtPlot3D] in your computer under a Windows XP. 

Before installing [http://qwtplot3d.sourceforge.net/ QwtPlot3D], please, verify that Qt is already installed and functioning on your PC. If it is not, install it first by following the installation procedure [InstallingQtForWindows]. 

= Details =

Download the latest realese of QwtPlot3D, currently QwtPlot3D 0.2.7, from the QwtPlot3D website at http://qwtplot3d.sourceforge.net/web/navigation/download_frame.html. Place it into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be c:\msys\usr\home\username. Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing: 

{{{
tar -zxvf qwtplot3d-0.2.7.tar
}}}

This will create a directory called qwtplot3d in your user directory. Go to this directory and open with a text editor _qwtplot3d.pro_ file. Now, delete the following:

{{{
 line 6: debug
line 7: MOC_DIR           = tmp
line 8: OBJECTS_DIR       = tmp
line 15: win32:TEMPLATE    = vclib
}}}

And add to end of the file:
{{{
contains(TEMPLATE,lib) { 
	CONFIG(debug, debug|release) {
		TARGET = $$member(TARGET, 0)d 
	} 
} 
}}}
Using the MSYS shell navigate to the just created directory and type: 
{{{
export QTDIR="/usr/qt"
qmake qwtplot3d.pro
make -f Makefile.Debug
make -f Makefile.Release
}}}

The library is created. Now, to put it into local:
{{{
cp -r include/* /usr/local/include/qwtplot3d
cp lib/* /usr/local/lib/
cp lib/*.dll /usr/local/bin/
}}}


[http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki]