#summary A guide to install and configure the development environment of Tonatiuh under 64 Bit Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7.

= Introduction =

To be able to develop Tonatiuh under Windows 64 Bit, you need to install the MinGW C++ compiler for 64 bit, the MSYS shell environment and a series of libraries. You will also need to install and configure an Integrated Development Environment, and the ancillary libraries and software infrastructure needed to automatize the generation of the program's documentation, to do unit testing and continuous integration.

Here you will find and overview of the overall process, together with links to the detailed instructions needed to execute every step of the process.  

= Details =

To be able to develop Tonatiuh under Windows 64 Bit you need to:

  * Install the appropriate compilation and linking environment.
    * [InstallingMinGWForWindows64 Installing MinGW 64 Bit and MSYS]

  * Install the third-party libraries needed by the program.
    * [InstallingQtForWindows64 Installing Qt]
    * [InstallingSimageForWindows64 Installing Simage]
    * [InstallingCoin3DForWindows64 Installing Coin3D]
    * [InstallingSoQt64 Installing SoQt]
    * [InstallingMarbleForWindows64 Installing Marble ]
    * [InstallingSQLiteForWindows64 Installing SQLite]

  * Install and configure the Integrated Development Environment.
    * [InstallingAndConfiguringEclipseForWindows Installing and Configuring Eclipse]
    * [Installing_Subversive Installing Subversive]
    * [BuildingTonatiuhUnderWindows Building Tonatiuh and plugins]
    * [DebuggingTonatiuhOnWindiows Debugging Tonatiuh with Eclipse]

  * Install Doxygen and configure it.
    * [InstallingDoxygenForWindows Installing Doxygen]

  * Install the Unit Testing and Continuous Integration infrastructure.
    * [InstallingGoogleTestForWindows64 Install GoogleTest]
 
 

[http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/wiki/DevelopersGuide Developer's Guide] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]