#summary This will guide you through the Marble Installation for Windows in order to develop the Tonatiuh project.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Marble - Desktop Globe =

Marble is a Virtual Globe and World Atlas that you can use to learn more about Earth: You can pan and zoom around and you can look up places and roads. A mouse click on a place label will provide the respective Wikipedia article.

= Details =

To compile marble you need CMake, a cross-platform make. You can obtain it from http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html. Download the last version of cmake for windows, you need a version newer than 2.4. Install CMake at _C:\CMake_version_.

Now, download the source files from http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php/Marble+-+Desktop+Globe?content=55105 clicking on _Source download_ link. Place it into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be c:\msys\usr\home\username. Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing: 

{{{
tar -xvzf marble-version.tar.gz
}}}

This will create a directory called _marble-version_ in your user directory. Using the MSYS shell navigate to just created marble-version directory and type:
{{{
 export QTDIR="/usr/qt"_
export PATH=$PATH:/c/CMake-version/bin
cmake -G"MinGW Makefiles" -DQTONLY=ON ../marble
make
}}}

Copy lib files to install directory:
{{{
 mkdir /local/include/marble
cp src/lib/*.h /local/include/marble
mkdir /local/include/marble/AbstractLayer
cp src/lib/AbstractLayer/*.h /local/include/marble/AbstractLayer/
mkdir /local/include/marble/geodata
cp src/lib/geodata/*.h /local/include/marble/geodata
mkdir /local/include/marble/gps
cp src/lib/gps/*.h /local/include/marble/gps
mkdir /local/include/marble/kml
cp src/lib/kml/*.h /local/include/marble/kml/
cp src/lib/libmarblewidget.dll /local/bin
cp src/lib/libmarblewidget.dll.a /local/lib
}}}


[InstallingForWindows Windows Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]