#summary How to install Coin3d for Windows from the source code

[http://www.coin3d.org/ Coin3D] is a high-level 3D graphics toolkit for developing cross-platform real-time 3D visualization and visual simulation software. Install [Installing_QT_for_Windows Qt] before start with the installation.

Download the latest realese of Coin, currently [http://ftp.coin3d.org/coin/src/all/Coin-3.0.0.tar.gz Coin 3.0.0], from the [http://www.coin3d.org/ Coin3D] website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view. Place it into the user directory under your MSYS folder.  This will typically be _c:\msys\usr\home\username_.
 
Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -zxvf Coin-3.0.0.tar.gz
}}}

This will create a directory called _Coin-3.0.0_ in your user directory. Using the MSYS shell navigate to just created Coin3.0.0 directory and type:
{{{
export QTDIR="/usr/qt"_
export COINDIR="/usr/local"_
export INCLUDE="/usr/local/include:/usr/qt/include"
./configure LDFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CXXFLAGS="-mno-cygwin"  --disable-msvc --without-mesa --without-x --prefix=/usr/local
}}}

This will start the configuration process. Depending on your computer, this process may take some time to finish. When it does, install the Coin3D libraries by typing:
{{{
make 
make install
}}}

The installation process may take several hours to finish. During it you could get errors, that could stop the process. There cases in which the error will trigger a warning in the MSYS shell console, together with instructions on how to solve it. In those cases, just follow the instructions received in order to fix the problem. When the error does not trigger any warnings, usually it can be fixed by just typing:
{{{
make
make install
}}}

After the installation process ends, you should manually edit the file '/usr/local/include/Inventor/C/basic.h' by adding the following lines to the top of the file:
{{{
#ifndef COIN_DLL 
#define COIN_DLL
#endif
}}}

Now, [Installing_SoQt SoQt] installation can be started.

[http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki]