#summary This will guide you through the Marble Installation for Linux in order to develop the Tonatiuh project.

= Marble - Desktop Globe =

Marble is a Virtual Globe and World Atlas that you can use to learn more about Earth: You can pan and zoom around and you can look up places and roads. A mouse click on a place label will provide the respective Wikipedia article.

= Details =
To compile marble you need CMake -a cross-platform make. It can be download from http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html. Download the latest binary version for Linux. You need a version newer than 2.4.

Now, download the source files from http://edu.kde.org/marble/download.php clicking on source download link. Pace it into downloads under your home folder. This will typically be  /home/username/downloads. Open a shell console and navigate to downloads directory. Extract the archive by typing: 

{{{
tar -xvzf marble-version.tar.gz
}}}

This will create a directory called _marble-version_ in your user directory. Using the shell navigate to just created marble-version directory and type for debug mode:
{{{
cmake -G"Unix Makefiles" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:String=debug -DCMAKE_DEBUG_POSTFIX=_debug -DQTONLY=ON ../marble
}}}

or type for release mode:
{{{
cmake -G"Unix Makefiles" -DQTONLY=ON ../marble
}}}
To build the library type:
{{{
make
}}}

Copy marble include files to the folder "/local/include/marble".
{{{
mkdir /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/AbstractLayer/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/data/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/handlers/dgml/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/handlers/gpx/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/handlers/kml/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/parser/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/geodata/scene/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/gps/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
cp src/lib/Projections/*.h /usr/local/include/marble
}}}

Copy main library files to the appropriate "/usr/local" folders.
{{{
cp src/lib/libmarblewidget.so* /usr/local/lib
}}}

Copy mable plugins to the folder "/usr/local/bin/marble".
{{{
mkdir /usr/local/bin/marble
mkdir /usr/local/bin/marble/plugins
cp src/plugins/network/qnam/libQNamNetworkPlugin.so  /usr/local/bin/marble/plugins
cp src/plugins/render/compass/libCompassFloatItem.so /usr/local/bin/marble/plugins
cp src/plugins/render/crosshairs/libCrosshairsPlugin.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/geodata/libGeoRendererPlugin.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/graticule/libGraticulePlugin.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/mapscale/libMapScaleFloatItem.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/navigation/libNavigationFloatItem.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/overviewmap/libOverviewMap.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/photo/libPhoto.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/stars/libStarsPlugin.so /usr/local/bin/marble
cp src/plugins/render/wikipedia/libWikipedia.so /usr/local/bin/marble
}}}

[InstallingForLinux Linux Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]