#summary Procedure to install SoQt under Linux

= Introduction =

[http://doc.coin3d.org/SoQt/ SoQt] is a library that provides the glue between Systems in Motion's Coin high-level 3D visualization library and Trolltech's Qt 2D user interface library. This pages provides instruction regarding how to install SoQt in your computer under Linux.

Before installing !SoQt, please, verify that Qt and Coin 3D are already installed and functioning on your PC. If they are not, install them first by following the corresponding installation procedures InstallingQtForLinux and [InstallingCoin3DForLinux].

= Details =
Download the latest realese of !SoQt, currently !SoQt 1.4.1, from the Coin3D website at http://www.coin3d.org/lib/plonesoftwarecenter_view. Place it into the user directory under your MSYS folder. This will typically be c:\msys\usr\home\username. Open an MSYS shell console. Navigate to your MSYS user directory and extract the archive by typing:
{{{
tar -zxvf SoQt-1.4.1.tar.gz
}}}
This will create a directory called _!SoQt-1.4.1_ in your user directory. Using the MSYS shell navigate to the just created SoQt-1.4.1. directory and type:
{{{
export QTDIR="/usr/qt"
export COINDIR="/usr/local"
export INCLUDE="/usr/local/include:/usr/qt/include"
env CPPFLAGS="-DCOIN_DLL" ./configure LDFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CFLAGS="-mno-cygwin" CXXFLAGS="-mno-cygwin"  --disable-msvc --without-mesa --without-x --with-coin=/usr/local --prefix=/usr/local
}}}
This will start the configuration process. This process should finish succesfully with the following message:
{{{
"SoQt configuration settings:
  Open Inventor brand: Coin
  Static Materials:    Yes
  Installation Prefix: /usr/local
Now, run 'make install' to build and install SoQt"
}}} 
[InstallingForLinux Linux Configuration] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]