#summary A guide to install and configure the development environment of Tonatiuh under Linux

= Introduction =
To be able to develop Tonatiuh under Linux, you need to install the C++ compiler and a series of libraries. You will also need to install and configure an Integrated Development Environment, and the ancillary libraries and software infrastructure needed to automatize the generation of the program's documentation, to do unit testing and continuous integration.

Here you will find and overview of the overall process, together with links to the detailed instructions needed to execute every step of the process.

= Details =

To be able to develop Tonatiuh under Linux you need to:

  * Install the appropriate compilation and linking environment.

  * Install the third-party libraries needed by the program.
    * [InstallingQtForLinux Installing Qt]
    * [InstallingSimageForLinux Installing Simage]
    * [InstallingCoin3DForLinux Installing Coin3D]
    * [InstallingSoQtForLinux Installing SoQt]
    * [InstallingMarbleForLinux Installing Marble]
    * [InstallingBerkeleyDBForLinux Installing Berkeley DB]

  * Install and configure the Integrated Development Environment.
    * [InstallingAndConfiguringEclipseForLinux Installing and Configuring Eclipse]
    * [Installing_Subversive Installing Subversive]
    * [BuildingTonatiuhOnLinux Building Tonatiuh and plugins]

  * Install Doxygen and configure it.
    * Installing Doxygen

  * Install the Unit Testing and Continuous Integration infrastructure.
    * Install GoogleTest 

[http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/wiki/DevelopersGuide Developer's Guide] | [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]