#summary This page shows the functions for the scripting in Tonatiuh v2.0.0.

= Introduction =
Tonatiuh has de capability to design and run the simulations using the scripting. To use the scripting open the script editor in _Automation>Script Editor_.

= Main functions =

Those are the functions to develop a system by scripting. They are explained following an alphabetic order:

 * *AddExportSurfaceURL( QString nodeURL )* : Adds the surface with the URL _nodeURL_ to the export surfaces list. The _nodeURL_ is the tree nodes names starting form the root ("\\!SunNode\ROOTNODENAME ", where ROOTNODENAME is the name of the root node in the scene ) to the surface node ( the node that contains the surface shape and material).

 * *!ChangeSunPosition(double azimuth, double elevation)*: Sets the sun azimuth and sun elevation to those new values. The sun will be automatically  updated.

 * *!ChangeSunPosition( int year, int month, int day, double hours, double minutes, double seconds, double latitude, double longitude )*: Changes the sun position to the position defined for a location ( latitude and _longitude_ in degrees) and for the time in UT. 	

 * *Copy()*: Copies the selected node to the clipboard.

 * *Copy( QString nodeURL )*: Copies the node defined by _nodeURL_ to the clipboard.

 * *!CreateGroupNode()*: Creates a separator node as a child of current selected node.

 * *!CreateAnalyzerNode()*: Creates an analyzer node as a child of current selected node.

 * *!CreateMaterial( QString materialType )*: Creates material node of type _materialType_ as a child of current selected node.

 * _!CreateShape( QString shapeType )_: Creates a new shape node of type _shapeType_ as a child of current selected node.

 * *!CreateSurfaceNode()*: Creates a Surface node as a child of current selected node.

 * *!CreateTracker( QString trackerType )*: Creates a new tracker of type _trackerType_ as child of the current selected node.

 * *Cut()*: Cuts the selected node and saves it at the clipboard.

 * *Cut( QString nodeURL )*: Cuts the node defined as _nodeURL_ and saves it at the clipboard.

 * *Delele()*: Deletes selected node.

 * *Delete( QString nodeURL )*: Deletes the node defined as _nodeURL_ and the childreon of this node form the scene.

 * *!InsertFileComponent( QString componentFileName )*: Inserts as a child of the selected node the Tonatiuh component saved at the file _componentFileName _.

 * *New()*: Opens an empty Tonatiuh scene.

 * *Open( QString fileName )*: Opens the _fileName_ file.

 * *Paste( QString nodeURL, QString pasteType )*: Pastes the node allocated on the clipboard as a child of _nodeURL_. The second argument, _pasteType_, indicates the type of paste, _Shared_ or _Copied_.
 
 * *!PasteCopy()*: Pastes the node allocated on the clipboard as a new child of the selected node.

 * *!PasteLink()*: Pastes the node allocated on the clipboard as a child of the selected node. Instead a new node, this function creates a new pointer to the physical node.

 * *Run()*: Runs the ray tracer for the current scene.

 * *!ResetAnalyzerValues()*: Resets analyzer values.

 * *!SaveAs( QString fileName )*: Saves the current system into _fileName_.

 * *!SelectNode( QString nodeURL )*: Selects the _nodeURL_.

 * *!SetAimingPointAbsolute()*: Sets the _!AimingPoint_ parameter value to _Absolute_ value.

 * *!SetAimingPointRelative()*: Sets the _!AimingPoint_ parameter value to _Relative_ value.
 
 * *!SetExportAllPhotonMap()*: Sets to save all intersection photons.

 * *!SetExportCoordinates( bool enabled, bool global )*: If _enabled_ is _false_ the photons coordintates will not be saved into simulations results. Otherwise, the coordinates will be saved into scene coordiantes if _global_ is true or in local coordinates relative to ntersection surface.

 * *!SetExportIntesectionSurface( bool enabled )*: If _enabled_ is _true_ the intersection surface will be saved for all photons. Otherwise, this information will not be saved.

 * *!SetExportIntesectionSurfaceSide( bool enabled )*: If _enabled_ is _true_ the side of the surface where ray has been intersected. Otherwise, this information will not be saved.
 
 * *!SetExportPhotonMapType( QString exportModeType )*: Sets the export photon type to _exportModeType_. Currently the _"SQL_Database"_, _"Binary_file"_ and _"Not export"_ are available.

 * *SetExportPreviousNextPhotonID( bool enabled )*:  If _enabled_ is _true_ the photon previous and next photons ID will be saved. Otherwise, this information will not be saved.

 * *!SetExportTypeParameterValue( QString parameterName, QString parameterValue )*: Sets to current selected export type parameter called _parameterName_ the value _parameterValue_.
  * For _"Binary_file"_ the parameters are:
   * "!ExportDirectory": the directory path to store binary files.
   * "!ExportFile": the binary files root name.
   * "!FileSize": the maximum photons that can be stored into a file. Use "-1" to save into a one file.
  * For _"QSL_Database"_ the parameters are:
   * "!ExportDirectory": the path of directory where the DB will be stored.
   * "DBFilename": The file name for the database.

 * *!SetIncreasePhotonMap( bool increase )*: Decides whether increase the photonMap or not for consecutive ray tracer executions.

 * *!SetNodeName( QString nodeName )*: Changes the selected node name to _nodeName_.

 * *!SetPhotonMapBufferSize( unsigned int nPhotons )*: Sets to _nPhoton_ the maximum number of photons that the photon map can store.
 
 * *!SetRandomDeviateType( QString typeName )*: Sets the type of random number generator to _typeName_. Current Tonatiuh version has available _"Mersenne Twister"_ and _"Rng Stream"_ generators.

 * *!SetRayCastingGrid(int widthDivisions, int heightDivisions)*: Sets the number of sun divisions.

 * *!SetRaysDrawingOptions( bool drawRays, bool drawPhotons )*: Sets to draw rays and photons after simulations.

 * *!SetRaysPerIteration( unsigned int rays )*: Sets the number of rays to trace per each ray trace execution.

 * *!SetSunshape( QString sunshapeType )*: Sets the sunshape type to _sunshapeType_ if it is valid type. Currently _"!Buie_Sunshape"_ and _"!Pillbox_Sunshape"_.

    * *!SetRaysDrawingOptions( double raysFraction, bool drawPhotons)*: cks between display or not the Photons and the percent of rays to draw after running the system.

 * *!SetSunShapeParameter( QString parameter, QString value )*: Assigns the _value_ to the sun parameter _parameter_.

 * *!SetTransmissivity( QString transmissivityType )*: Sets the scene transmissivity to _transmissivityType_. The following types are available currently:
  * _"Default Transmissivity"_
  * _"Ballestrin Transmissivity"_
  * _"Mirval Transmissivity"_
  * _"Sengupta-NREL Transmissivity"_
  * _"!VantHull Transmissivity"_
  * _"!VittitoeBiggs Transmissivity"_

 * *!SetTransmissivityParameter( QString parameter, QString value )*: Assings the value into _value_ to the _parameter_ into the current defined transmissivity.

 * *!SetValue( QString nodeURL,QString parameter, QString value)*: Sets to parameter with the name _parameter_ of the node _nodeURL_, the value defined into _value_.

In the Tutorials section there is an example of how use this functions to create a tower system a simulate it. Go to [TutorialSmallHeliostatsTowerUsingScriptv2 Smal heliostats Tower using script].

[UsersGuide User Guide]| [http://code.google.com/p/tonatiuh/w/list Wiki Home]