#summary Analysis of the flux distribution at the focal plane of a Parabolic Dish using Tonatiuh release 2.0.1

= Introduction =

This tutorial explains how to use Tonatiuh release 2.0.1 to model a parabolic dish and simulate its optical behaviour. It also explains how to use Mathematica to process the output from Tonatiuh to estimate the concentrated solar flux distribution at the focal plane of the parabolic dish and related parameters, such as the maximum radius of such distribution, i.e., the size of the solar radiation spot at the focal plane.

= Modelling the parabolic dish with Tonatiuh =

== The concentrating system to be modelled ==

The parabolic dish we are going to model is composed of a parabolic dish mirror and a flat disk receiver located in the focal plane of the mirror and centred at the focal point.

For simplicity, we are going to assume that the mirror is a perfect specular mirror of ideal paraboloidal shape and the receiver is a perfect absorber of ideal flat disk shape.

We are going to use the following values for the parameters defining the geometry of dish and the receiver:

  # Parabolic mirror
    * Radius = 5 meters
    * Focal length = 6.0454798 meters
  # Flat disk receiver
    * Radius = 0.06 meters

Such a parabolic dish, which has an f-Number (ratio of the focal length to the dish diameter) of 0.60454798, achieves the maximum geometric concentration ratio for a parabolic dish.

== Modelling the concentrating system with Tonatiuh 2.0.1 ==

After starting Tonatiuh, do the following:

  # Add a Group Node to the RootNode and label it "ConcentratingSystem".
  # Add a Group Node to the "ConcentratingSystem" Group Node and label it "ParabolicDish".
  # Add a second Group Node to the "ConcentratingSystem" Group Node and label it "Receiver".

After doing this, Tonatiuh's user interface should look like Figure 1.

  # Click on the "ParabolicDish" Group Node to select it. Add to it a Surface Node and keep the automatic label "TShapeKit1" provided by Tonatiuh.
  # Click on the just created "TShapeKit1" Surface Node and add to it:
    * A "Parabolic_Dish" node.
    * A "Specula_Standard_Material" node.


    